assisted installer disable nic doc (#36)
RHsyseng/telco-operations: assisted-installer/disable-nic/README.md

# **Deploying an OpenShift Cluster with disabled nics using Assisted Installer**

This document briefly describes how to run a deployment of an OpenShift Cluster through Assisted Installer when one or several nics need to be disabled.

We will use [Assisted Installer CLI](https://github.com/karmab/aicli) in order to interact with the Assisted Service API in a CLI fashion.

> The approach involves using the API to inject a network manager file that will disable specified nic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The approach involves using the API to inject a network manager file that will disable the specified nic.
```

> The file needs to be injected both in the discovery iso through an ignition config override and also as a cluster manifest so that it applies to the nodes when they get installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file needs to be injected both in the discovery iso through an ignition config override and also as a cluster extra manifest so that it applies to the nodes when they get installed.
```

## **Preparing the network manager file content**

We prepare a file to indicate which nic needs to be disabled (ens4 in our case).

> Note that one can indicate more than one nics by separating with a comma list the last line, something like `unmanaged-devices=interface-name:ens4,interface-name:ens5`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that one can indicate more than one nic by separating them with a comma, something like `unmanaged-devices=interface-name:ens4,interface-name:ens5`
```

```
[main]
rc-manager=file
[connection]
ipv6.dhcp-duid=ll
ipv6.dhcp-iaid=mac
[keyfile]
unmanaged-devices=interface-name:ens4
```

Once the file contains the desired content, we store the corresponding base64 information.

```

> BASE64=$(cat $network_file | base64)

Reviewer: Maybe add base64 -w0 ?

```

In the remainder of this document, replace *BASE64* with the corresponding content.

## **Preparing the manifest file**

We create a directory named manifests where we create a file named `disablenic-master.yaml`

> We can create a file with similar content for worker by changing `metadata/labels to machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can create a file with similar content for worker by changing `metadata/labels to machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker` and `metadata/name to disablenic-worker`
```

```
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  name: disablenic-master
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: master
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.1.0
    storage:
      files:
        - contents:
            source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,$BASE64
            verification: {}
          filesystem: root
          mode: 420
          path: /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/disablenic.conf
```

## **Preparing the aicli parameter file**

> The parameter file to be used with aicli will need to contain both the reference for *ignition\_config\_override* and the information of the directory where to get additional manifests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parameter file to be used with aicli needs to have both the reference for *ignition\_config\_override* and the information of the directory where the extra manifests are stored.
```
